If  it's  just  thunderheads  or  broken  line  squalls  you  can  try  to  ride  around
them, but this one isn't. That long dark streak without any preceding cirrus
clouds  is  a  cold  front.  Cold  fronts  are  violent  and  when  they  are  from  the
southwest,  they  are  the  most  violent.  Often  they  contain  tornadoes.  When
they  come  it's  best  to  just  hole  up  and  let  them  pass  over.  They  don't  last
long and the cool air behind them makes good riding.
Warm fronts are the worst. They can last for days. I remember Chris and I
were  on  a  trip  to  Canada  a  few  years  ago,  got  about  130  miles  and  were
caught  in  a  warm  front  of  which  we  had  plenty  of  warning  but  which  we
didn't understand. The whole experience was kind of dumb and sad.
We were on a little six-and-one-half-horsepower cycle, way overloaded with
luggage  and  way  underloaded  with  common  sense.  The  machine  could  do
only  about  forty-five  miles  per  hour  wide  open  against  a  moderate  head
wind. It was no touring bike. We reached a large lake in the North Woods
the first night and tented amid rainstorms that lasted all night long. I forgot
to dig a trench around the tent and at about two in the morning a stream of
water  came  in  and  soaked  both  sleeping  bags.  The  next  morning  we  were
soggy and depressed and hadn't had much sleep, but I thought that if we just
got riding the rain would let up after a while. No such luck. By ten o'clock
the  sky  was  so  dark  all  the  cars  had  their  headlights  on.  And  then  it  really
came down.
We were wearing the ponchos which had served as a tent the night before.
Now they spread out like sails and slowed our speed to thirty miles an hour
wide open. The water on the road became two inches deep. Lightning bolts
came  crashing  down  all  around  us.  I  remember  a  woman's  face  looking
astonished at us from the window of a passing car, wondering what in earth
we were doing on a motorcycle in this weather. I'm sure I couldn't have told
her.
The cycle slowed down to twenty-five, then twenty. Then it started missing,
coughing  and  popping  and  sputtering  until,  barely  moving  at  five  or  six
miles  an  hour,  we  found  an  old  run-down  filling  station  by  some  cutover
timberland and pulled in.
At  the  time,  like  John,  I  hadn't  bothered  to  learn  much  about  motorcycle
maintenance. I remember holding my poncho over my head to keep the rain
from  the  tank  and  rocking  the  cycle  between  my  legs.  Gas  seemed  to  be
sloshing around inside. I looked at the plugs, and looked at the points, and
looked at the carburetor, and pumped the kick starter until I was exhausted.
We went into the filling station, which was also a combination beer joint and
restaurant,  and  had  a  meal  of  burned-up  steak.  Then  I  went  back  out  and
tried  it  again.  Chris  kept  asking  questions  that  started  to  anger  me  because
he didn't see how serious it was. Finally I saw it was no use, gave it up, and
my anger at him disappeared. I explained to him as carefully as I could that it
was  all  over.  We  weren't  going  anywhere  by  cycle  on  this  vacation.  Chris
suggested  things  to  do  like  check  the  gas,  which  I  had  done,  and  find  a
mechanic.  But  there  weren't  any  mechanics.  Just  cutover  pine  trees  and
brush and rain.
I sat in the grass with him at the shoulder of the road, defeated, staring into
the trees and underbrush. I answered all of Chris's questions patiently and in
time  they  became  fewer  and  fewer.  And  then  Chris  finally  understood  that
our cycle trip was really over and began to cry. He was eight then, I think.
We hitchhiked back to our own city and rented a trailer and put it on our car
and came up and got the cycle, and hauled it back to our own city and then
started out all over again by car. But it wasn't the same. And we didn't really
enjoy ourselves much.
Two weeks after the vacation was over, one evening after work, I removed
the  carburetor  to  see  what  was  wrong  but  still  couldn't  find  anything.  To
clean off the grease before replacing it, I turned the stopcock on the tank for
a little gas. Nothing came out. The tank was out of gas. I couldn't believe it.
I can still hardly believe it.
The machine itself receives some of the same feelings. With over 27,000 on
it  it's  getting  to  be  something  of  a  high-miler,  an  old-timer,  although  there
are  plenty  of  older  ones  running.  But  over  the  miles,  and  I  think  most
cyclists will agree with this, you pick up certain feelings about an individual
machine  that  are  unique  for  that  one  individual  machine  and  no  other.  A
friend  who  owns  a  cycle  of  the  same  make,  model  and  even  same  year
brought  it  over  for  repair,  and  when  I  test  rode  it  afterward  it  was  hard  to
believe  it  had  come  from  the  same  factory  years  ago.  You  could  see  that
long  ago  it  had  settled  into  its  own  kind  of  feel  and  ride  and  sound,
completely different from mine. No worse, but different.
I  suppose  you  could  call  that  a  personality.  Each  machine  has  its  own,
unique  personality  which  probably  could  be  defined  as  the  intuitive  sum
total  of  everything  you  know  and  feel  about  it.  This  personality  constantly
changes, usually for the worse, but sometimes surprisingly for the better, and
it  is  this  personality  that  is  the  real  object  of  motorcycle  maintenance.  The
new  ones  start  out  as  good-looking  strangers  and,  depending  on  how  they
are treated, degenerate rapidly into bad-acting grouches or even cripples, or
else  turn  into  healthy,  good-natured,  long-lasting  friends.  This  one,  despite
the  murderous  treatment  it  got  at  the  hands  of  those  alleged  mechanics,
seems to have recovered and has been requiring fewer and fewer repairs as
time goes on.
There it is!
It  was  cold  all  right,  but  not  that  cold.  How  do  John  and  Sylvia  ever  get
through   Minnesota   winters?   I   wonder.   There's   kind   of   a   glaring
inconsistency here, that's almost too obvious to dwell on. If they can't stand
physical  discomfort  and  they  can't  stand  technology,  they've  got  a  little
compromising  to  do.  They  depend  on  technology  and  condemn  it  at  the
same time. I'm sure they know that and that just contributes to their dislike
of  the  whole  situation.  They're  not  presenting  a  logical  thesis,  they're  just
reporting how it is. But three farmers are coming into town now, rounding
the  corner  in  that  brand-new  pickup  truck.  I'll  bet  with  them  it's  just  the
other way around. They're going to show off that truck and their tractor and
that  new  washing  machine  and  they'll  have  the  tools  to  fix  them  if  they  go
wrong, and know how to use the tools. They value technology. And they're
the  ones  who  need  it  the  least.  If  all  technology  stopped,  tomorrow,  these
people would know how to make out. It would be rough, but they'd survive.
John   and   Sylvia   and   Chris   and   I   would   be   dead   in   a   week.   This
condemnation of technology is ingratitude, that's what it is.